Add post "Making Apps That Learn And Adapt" (#22)
spiceai/blog: content/posts/project/making-apps-that-learn-and-adapt.md

As a developer, I've followed the AI/ML space with keen interest and been impressed with the advances and announcements that only seem to be increasing. stateof.ai recently published its 2021 report, and once again, it's been another great year of progress. At the same time, it's still more demanding than ever for mainstream developers to integrate AI/ML into their applications. For most developers where AI/ML is not their full-time job and without the support of a dedicated ML team, creating and developing an intelligent application that learns and adapts is highly challenging.

Most solutions on the market, even those that claim they are for developers, focus on helping make ML easier instead of building applications. These have been great for advancing ML itself but have not helped developers leverage ML in their apps to make them intelligent. Even when a developer successfully integrates ML into an application, it might make that application smart, but it does not help it continue to learn and adapt over time.

> Traditionally, the industry has viewed AI/ML as separate from the application, such as a pipeline, service, or team that is provided with data, trains, and can then provide answers or insights. These solutions are often created with a waterfall-like approach, gathering and defining requirements, designing, implementing, testing, and deploying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traditionally, the industry has viewed AI/ML as separate from the application. A pipeline, service, or team is provided with data, which trains on that data, and can then provide answers or insights. These solutions are often created with a waterfall-like approach, gathering and defining requirements, designing, implementing, testing, and deploying.
```

The `data, trains` sentence looks weird to me, perhaps splitting it up would make it easier to parse?

type: blog
linkTitle: "Making Apps That Learn And Adapt"
author: Luke Kim ([@0xLukeKim](https://twitter.com/0xLukeKim))
---

In the [Spice.ai announcement blog post](https://blog.spiceai.org/posts/2021/09/07/introducing-spice.ai-open-source-time-series-ai-for-developers/), we shared some of the inspiration for the project stemming from challenges in applying and integrating AI/ML into a neurofeedback application. Building upon those ideas, in this post, we explore the shift in approach from a focus of data science and machine learning (ML) to apps that learn and adapt.

As a developer, I've followed the AI/ML space with keen interest and been impressed with the advances and announcements that only seem to be increasing. [stateof.ai](https://stateof.ai) recently published its 2021 report, and once again, it's been another great year of progress. At the same time, it's still more challenging than ever for mainstream developers to integrate AI/ML into their applications. For most developers, where AI/ML is not their full-time job, and without the support of a dedicated ML team, creating and developing an intelligent application that learns and adapts is still too hard.

> Most solutions on the market, even those that claim they are for developers, focus on helping make ML easier instead of helping building applications easier. These solutions have been great for advancing ML itself but have not helped developers leverage ML in their apps to make them intelligent. Even when a developer successfully integrates ML into an application, it might make that application smart, but often does not help the app continue to learn and adapt over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most solutions on the market, even those that claim they are for developers, focus on helping make ML easier instead of making it easier to build applications. These solutions have been great for advancing ML itself but have not helped developers leverage ML in their apps to make them intelligent. Even when a developer successfully integrates ML into an application, it might make that application smart, but often does not help the app continue to learn and adapt over time.
```
